hello I'm Katherine BYU hanga we start
with the conflict between Israel and
Hamas President Biden has welcomed
Israel's decision to formalize brief
humanitarian pauses in the fighting in
Northern Gaza calling it a step in the
right direction the agreement came after
weeks of us pressure the Israeli defense
minister said the poses would not
interfere with with the with Israel's
military objectives meanwhile Health
officials in Gaza say they have been
Israeli air strikes on or close to
hospitals including the biggest in the
territory alifa the BBC has not been
able to verify the reports from the
Hamas run authorities but Israel's
military said earlier that its forces
were operating close to the shifa
hospital well let's speak to our Middle
East correspondent yolan Nell who's in
Jerusalem yoland what can you tell us
about these air strikes that Hamas run
authorities say happened close to to
hospitals in
Gaza well there's three hospitals in
Gaza City that are included in this
statement we also know that there has
been um other military action close to
the Indonesian Hospital which is further
north in the Gaza Strip um but in
particular if we look at the shiffer
hospital the biggest Hospital in the
whole of Gaza where of course there are
thousands of people who have been
Sheltering in the grounds as well as the
patients and the doctors who uh who
remain there um and are complaining that
they have you know very short on
supplies these are very difficult
circumstances in which they're operating
we know already that there has been
Fierce fighting very close to the
hospital in the past day the Israeli
military says it has been operating with
its Ground Forces backed up with air
support in that area um saying that that
is where Hamas had its military
headquarters and that there were in an
Intelligence Center there that was
important for the planning and the
execution of those deadly 7th of OCT
October attacks um now there are there
are videos that we're really not in too
much doubt about because they're from
several angles simultaneously inside
what is clearly um the shipper hospital
at night you can hear this sort of whiz
of a missile that hits in the courtyard
and then in one of the videos you see a
man um has been hit that he is covered
in blood in a later video you can see
there is a body on a stretcher with a
pool of blood next to it and uh what we
really don't know is you know what the
source of that missile fire was um I've
put in a call to the Israeli military
they said that they're checking if there
were any air strikes in that area
overnight and this is not the first time
that there have been attacks around the
Aliva hospital it's a point of interest
during this
conflict oh definitely and what we've
had from Israel in the past is they have
said quite clearly that they believe
that Hamas uses the shifer hospital
buildings within it and an underground
tunnel Network there um in order to act
as kind of command and control center it
is ultimately a focus of operations but
it's extremely complicated uh for the
Israelis that you have so many people
going there as they have done safely in
previous conflicts uh Sheltering there
that that has been of course a main
place to take the many many wounded in
uh in Gaza City to there's been intense
Israeli bombardment of Gaza City in
recent days and that has led to to more
patients being rushed into the shipper
hospital and the doctors and the staff
there uh deny that their premises are
used by
Hamas thank you very much yolan our
correspondent there in
Jerusalem Hamas ran Health Ministry says
that over 4,000 children have been
killed since the start of the war and
thousands more have been injured Israel
disputes these figures but the World
Health Organization believes the numbers
are credible some of those wounded now
face lifelong disabilities left unable
to walk or are paralyzed working with
freelance journalists in Gaza filming
for the BBC our correspondent Yi reports
from
Jerusalem what must it take for a mother
to comfort her
child when reality is so
devastating 2-year-old Fatima was stuck
under the rubble of a bombing in Gaza 3
weeks ago
[Music]
go nihad and her husband had tried for
14 years to have a
baby and then Fatima was
[Music]
born what is her fault what did she do
wrong we have to constantly give her
painkillers as soon as the effect of one
wears off I give her another her life
revolves around painkillers and every
other day she under goes surgery
trapped in Gaza under the constant
threat of being
bombed hospitals fill up with more
wounded
children Amir Al badavi
13 seven of her brothers were killed and
her mother
to her father says they'd fled to
Southern Gaza for
safety that's where they were
bombed Amir has spinal
injuries I want peace and security I
want to be treated and go back to normal
life to my home she says I want to feel
safe it's not clear if Amir will be able
to walk
again yogat BBC News
Jerusalem